EC2 Inteview QandA

1) Explain EC2 in Amazon?
ans: Amazon EC2 stands for Elastic Compute Cloud which is a web service interface. 
It also provides resizable compute capacity in the AWS cloud. 
It is used by developers to have complete control over web-scaling and computing resources.

2) Mention some pros and cons of using Amazon EC2?
Ans: 
    Pros:
It has the ability to expand resources for the deployment of your cloud according to demand makes it extremely likable.
Cloud hosting offers excellent backup capabilities, so it's a breeze to go back to the previous version.
The cloud infrastructure prevents us from maintaining local hardware resources.

   Cons:
The entire configuration and spin-up process require comprehensive technical knowledge.
It has a little lack of training documentation and support. 
We tried to use Lambda expressions in the execution of program flow and found no great resources on this subject.

3) List types of EC2 instances available in AWS?
Ans:
 1. General-Purpose instances.
 2. Compute Optimized instances.
 3. Memory Optimized instances.
 4. Accelerated Computing instances.
 5. Storage Optimized instances

4) What is the easiest and safest way to backup in Amazon EC2?
Ans: One way of using EBS for backup is to create a snapshot of EBS volume used by EC2. EBS snapshot works as an external storage device. 
The user saves the instance at a given time and can restore it later

5) For what purpose EC2 instance tags are used?
Ans: It helps you to manage your instances, images, and other Amazon EC2 resources.
It allows you to assign your own metadata to each resource in the form of tags.
It enables you to categorize your AWS resources in different ways such as by purpose, owner, or environment.

6) Why do we create instances in AWS?
Ans:We should create instances in AWS to obtain and configure capacity with minimal friction.

7) List some tools to monitor AWS?
Ans: 
Nagios XI
AppDynamics
SolarWinds® AppOptics
SolarWinds Papertrail
StackPath Edge Delivery
Paessler PRTG Network Monitor
ManageEngine Applications Manager
SolarWinds Database Performance Analyzer
SolarWinds Database Performance Monitor
SolarWinds Server & Application Monitor

8) How do you route a domain name to an EC2 Instance?
Ans: 
Open the Route 53 console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/route53/.
In the navigation pane, choose Hosted zones.
Choose the name of the hosted zone that matches the name of the domain that you want to route traffic for.
Choose Create Record.
Specify Routing policy and Choose to Create records values.

9) What is the difference between a public IP and an elastic IP in AWS?
Ans: 
Public IP: When an instance is terminated the public IP attached to it gets released and further when you relaunch the same instance new IP address is assigned.
Elastic IP: Elastic IP does not change and they remain the same even if you terminate the instance and later again restart the same instance.

10) How to regenerate a .pem file for my AWS EC2 server?
Ans: 
Fire a new instance
Stop the current and detech the ebs volume
Attach the volume to newly fired instance
Now you have a new instance with pem file

11) What is the difference between a spot instance and an on-demand instance?
Ans: 
Spot Instance and On-demand Instance are very similar in nature. 
The main difference between these is of commitment. 
In Spot Instance there is no commitment. As soon as the Bid price exceeds Spot price, a user gets the Instance. 
In an On-demand Instance, a user has to pay the On-demand rate specified by Amazon.

12) How to set AWS EC2 CPU utilization to max or use all cores?
Ans: You can specify these CPU options during instance launch. 
There is no additional or reduced charge for specifying CPU options. 
You're charged the same as instances that are launched with default CPU options.

13) How do we permanently terminate or delete AWS EC2 instance?
Ans: 
Locate the instance that you wish to delete or terminate on the Instances page in the Amazon EC2 console.
Right-click on the instance, from the menu, choose Instance State –> Select Terminate option.
Finally, on the next confirmation pop-up, choose Yes to confirm the termination of the AWS instance.

14) What is the purpose of 'Reservations' in Amazon EC2?
Ans: 

15) What is the difference between Amazon ECS and Amazon EC2?
Ans: On-Demand Capacity Reservations enable you to reserve compute capacity for your Amazon EC2 instances in a specific Availability Zone for any duration. 

16) I am not able to ping my AWS EC2 instance. What is the problem?
Ans: you might already know that due to virtual firewall or security group, by default, no inbound traffic is allowed. Therefore it is so obvious for ping to not work.

17) How to find EC2 instances running a certain AMI?
Ans: 
Open the Amazon EC2 console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/.
In the navigation pane, choose AMIs.
In the navigation pane, choose Snapshots, and select the snapshot (look for the AMI ID in the Description column).
(Optional) If you are finished with an instance that you launched from the AMI, terminate it

18) What is '2' signifies in EC2 of AWS?
Ans: ‘2’ signifies the two continuous C’s such as Compute Cloud in EC2 of AWS.

19) What is ec2 snapshot?
Ans: An Amazon Elastic Block Store (EBS) snapshot is a point-in-time representation of the Amazon EBS volume, which is gradually copied to Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3) and are incremental images of data. This means that individual blocks of EBS volume data that have evolved since the last EBS snapshot are stored in the next EBS snapshot and this is how incremental images of data are produced in Amazon AWS EBS snapshot.

20)  What are EBS volumes? 
Answer:EBS stands for Elastic Block Stores. They are persistent volumes that you can attach to the 
instances. With EBS volumes, your data will be preserved even when you stop your instances, unlike 
your instance store volumes where the data is deleted when you stop the instances.

21.  What are the components of AWS? 
Answer:EC2 – Elastic Compute Cloud, S3 – Simple Storage Service, Route53, EBS – Elastic Block 
Store, Cloudwatch, Key-Paris are few of the components of AWS.

22.  What are the types of load balancers in EC2? 
Answer: There are 3 types of load balancers, 
• Application load balancer 
• Network load balancer 
• Classic load balancer 

23. ) What are the cloudwatch metrics that are available for EC2 instances? 
Answer: Diskreads, Diskwrites, CPU utilization, networkpacketsIn, networkpacketsOut, networkIn, 
networkOut, CPUCreditUsage, CPUCreditBalance.

24. Maximum number of EC2 which can be created in VPC. 
Answer:Maximum 20 instances can be created in a VPC. we can create 20 reserve instances and 
request for spot instance as per demand. 

25. How EC2instances can be resized. 
Answer: EC2 instances can be resizable(scale up or scale down) based on requirement 

26. Troubleshooting with EC2 Instances: 
Answer: Instance States 
• If the instance state is 0/2- there might be some hardware issue • If the instance state is ½-
there might be issue with OS. 
Workaround-Need to restart the instance, if still that is not working logs will help to fix the 
issue.

27. How do you access the Ec2 which has private IP which is in private Subnet ? 
Answer: We can access using VPN if the VPN is configured into that Particular VPC where Ec2 is 
assigned to that VPC in the Subnet. We can access using other Ec2 which has the Public access. 

28. Clarify the highlights of Amazon EC2 administrations. 
Answer:Amazon EC2 administrations have following highlights: 
• Virtual Computing Environments 
• Proffers Persistent capacity volumes 
• Firewall approving you to indicate the convention 
• Pre-designed layouts 
• Static IP address for dynamic Cloud Computing 

29.  What are the security best practices for Amazon Ec2 examples? 
Answer:There are various accepted procedures for anchoring Amazon EC2 occurrences that are 
pertinent whether occasions are running on-preface server farms or on virtual machines. How about 
we view some broad prescribed procedures: 
Minimum Access: Make beyond any doubt that your EC2 example has controlled access to the case 
and in addition to the system. Offer access specialists just to the confided in substances. 
Slightest Privilege: Follow the vital guideline of minimum benefit for cases and clients to play out the 
capacities. Produce jobs with confined access for the occurrences. 
Setup Management: Consider each EC2 occasion a design thing and use AWS arrangement the 
executives administrations to have a pattern for the setup of the occurrences as these administrations 
incorporate refreshed enemy of infection programming, security highlights and so forth. 
Whatever be the activity job, you may go over security based AWS inquiries questions. Along these 
lines, motivate arranged with this inquiry to break the AWS designer meet. 

30. What number of capacity alternatives are there for EC2 Instance? 
Answer:There are four stockpiling choices for Amazon EC2 Instance: 
• Amazon EBS 
• Amazon EC2 Instance Store 
• Amazon S3 
• Adding Storage 

31.  Explain Storage For Amazon Ec2 Instance.? 
Answer:An instance store is a provisional storing type located on disks that are physically attached to 
a host machine. … This article will present you to the AWS instance store storage type, compare it to 
AWS Elastic Block Storage (AWS EBS), and show you how to backup data stored on instance stores 
to AWS EBS 

32. i am just checking the details
