VPC Inteview QandA

Q:1 What is VPC in AWS?
Ans:
Amazon VPC (Amazon Virtual Private Cloud) is a service that allows you to launch AWS resources in a logically isolated virtual network that you identify. Most services in your virtual private cloud can use both IPv4 and IPv6, ensuring safe and convenient access to resources and applications.

Q:2 What is a VPC subnet?
Ans:
A VPC is a virtual private cloud (VPC) that spans an AWS region. There are two or more availability zones in a region. Subnets within a VPC are used to logically isolate resources within a region. A subnet can't be shared by more than one availability region. Depending on its accessibility from outside of VPC and whether it can access resources outside of VPC, a subnet can be classified as either a private or public subnet.

In VPC, a subnet is an important part. A VPC may contain all public subnets (or a mix of public and private subnets). A subnet that does not have a route to the internet gateway is known as a private subnet. By routing traffic via a virtual private gateway, a subnet can be configured as a VPN-only subnet.

Q:3 What is VPC and what are its benefits?
Ans:
The advantage of VPC is that it aids in aspects of cloud computing such as privacy, protection, and preventing data loss. An IGW is a VPC component that allows communication between instances and the internet. It is horizontally scaled, redundant, and highly accessible. At any given time, only one IGW can be attached to a VPC.

Q:4 What is the difference between EC2 and VPC?
Ans:
Amazon EC2
Your instances run in a single, flat network that you share with other customers when you use EC2-Classic.
Amazon VPC
Your instances run in a virtual private cloud (VPC) that is logically separate from your AWS account when you use Amazon VPC.

Q:5 What is difference between VPC and subnet?
Ans:
VPC comes with a default network ACL that can be modified. By default, it makes both inbound and outbound IPv4 traffic, as well as IPv6 traffic if necessary. One subnet can only connect with a single ACL but a single ACL can have multiple subnets. Subnetwork or subnet is a logical subdivision of an IP network.

Q:6 How many subnets can a VPC have? OR How many subnets can we create per VPC?
Ans:
Currently, user can create 200 subnets per VPC. If want to create more, need to submit a case at the support center.

Q:7 How do you connect multiple sites to a VPC?
Ans:
To have multiple VPN connections, use AWS VPN CloudHub to provide secure communication between sites.

Q:8 What are the ways to monitor Amazon VPC?
Ans:
In below ways we can monitor VPC:

CloudWatch and CloudWatch logs
VPC Flow Logs

Q:9 What are the components of VPC?
Ans:
AWS VPC is made up of multiple networking components, some of which are as follows:

Subnets
Elastic network interfaces
Route tables
Internet gateways
Elastic IP addresses
VPC endpoints
NAT
VPC peering

Q:10 The server is not being resolved by VPC using DNS. What is the problem, and how do you solve it?
Ans:
To solve this issue, you must enable DNS hostname resolution, which will resolve the issue on its own.

Q:11 What are Security Groups in VPC?
Ans:
A security group functions as a virtual firewall for your instance to control inbound and outbound traffic. To launch an instance in a VPC, it can assign up to five security groups to the instance. Security groups act at the instance level, not the subnet level. As a result, each instance in a subnet in your VPC can be assigned to a different set of security groups.
If want to launch an instance using the Amazon EC2 API or a command line tool and no need to specify a security group, the instance is automatically assigned to the default security group for the VPC.
If want to launch an instance using the Amazon EC2 console, we have an option to create a new security group for the instance.

12. Maximum number of EC2 which can be created in VPC. 
Answer:Maximum 20 instances can be created in a VPC. we can create 20 reserve instances and 
request for spot instance as per demand. 

13. What is VPC peering connection? 
Answer: VPC peering connection allows you to connect 1 VPC with another VPC. Instances in these 
VPC behave as if they are in the same network. 

Q14) What are NAT gateways? 
Answer: NAT stands for Network Address Translation. NAT gateways enables instances in a private 
subnet to connect to the internet but prevent the internet from initiating a connection with those 
instances.
 
Q15) How can you control the security to your VPC? 
Answer: You can use security groups and NACL (Network Access Control List) to control the 
security to your 
VPC. 

Q16) What are the different types of storage gateway? 
Answer: Following are the types of storage gateway. 
• File gateway 
• Volume gateway 
• Tape gateway 

17.  Which is virtual network interface that you can attach to an instance in a VPC? 
Answer: Elastic Network Interface

18 . Is it feasible for an EC2 exemplary occurrence to wind up an individual from a virtual 
private cloud? 
Answer:Amazon Virtual Private Cloud (Amazon VPC) empowers you to characterize a virtual system 
in your very own consistently disengaged zone inside the AWS cloud, known as a virtual private 
cloud (VPC). You can dispatch your Amazon EC2 assets, for example, occasions, into the subnets of 
your VPC. Your VPC nearly looks like a conventional system that you may work in your very own 
server farm, with the advantages of utilizing adaptable foundation from AWS. You can design your 
VPC; you can choose its IP address extend, make subnets, and arrange course tables, organize portals, 
and security settings. You can interface occurrences in your VPC to the web or to your own server 
farm 

19.  Mention crafted by an Amazon VPC switch. 
Answer:VPCs and Subnets. A virtual private cloud (VPC) is a virtual system committed to your AWS 
account. It is consistently segregated from other virtual systems in the AWS Cloud. You can dispatch 
your AWS assets, for example, Amazon EC2 cases, into your VPC.

20. When attached to an Amazon VPC which two components provide connectivity with 
external networks? 
Answer: 
• Internet Gateway {IGW) 
• Virtual Private Gateway (VGW)

21.  Which of the following are characteristics of Amazon VPC subnets? 
Answer: 
• Each subnet maps to a single Availability Zone. 
• By defaulting, all subnets can route between each other, whether they are private

22.  What are the Defaults services we get when we create custom AWS VPC? 
Answer: 
• Route Table 
• Network ACL 
• Security Group 

23.  To establish a peering connections between two VPC’s What condition must be met? 
Answer: 
• CIDR Block should overlap 
• CIDR Block should not overlap 
• VPC should be in the same region 
• VPC must belong to same account. 
• CIDR block should not overlap between vpc setting up a peering connection . peering 
connection is allowed within a region , across region, across different account. 

24. 

